1. Manually Remove the Extension
Sometimes, manually removing the extension and reinstalling it can resolve issues. Follow these steps:

Close Visual Studio Code.
Navigate to the extensions directory.
Open File Explorer and go to the path:
makefile
Copy code
C:\Users\Utilizador\.vscode\extensions
Delete the problematic extension folder.
Find the folder named ms-python.debugpy-2024.10.0-win32-x64 and delete it.
Restart Visual Studio Code.
Reinstall the extension.
Open the Extensions view in VS Code (Ctrl+Shift+X), search for "Python Debugger" or "debugpy", and reinstall the extension.
2. Clear Extension Cache
Clearing the extension cache can also help resolve update issues:

Close Visual Studio Code.
Navigate to the extension cache directory.
Open File Explorer and go to the path:
makefile
Copy code
C:\Users\Utilizador\AppData\Roaming\Code\CachedExtensionVSIXs
Delete the cached extension files.
Delete any files related to the ms-python.debugpy extension.
Restart Visual Studio Code.
Reinstall the extension.
Open the Extensions view in VS Code (Ctrl+Shift+X), search for "Python Debugger" or "debugpy", and reinstall the extension.
3. Update Visual Studio Code
Ensure that you are using the latest version of Visual Studio Code:

Check for updates.
Open Visual Studio Code and go to Help > Check for Updates.
Install any available updates.
Restart Visual Studio Code.
4. Check Permissions
Make sure you have the necessary permissions to modify the extension files:

Run Visual Studio Code as Administrator.
Right-click the Visual Studio Code shortcut and select Run as administrator.
5. Use Command Line
You can also try to install or update the extension using the command line:

Open Command Prompt or PowerShell.
Use the code command to install the extension.
bash
Copy code
code --install-extension ms-python.debugpy
If you do not have the code command in your PATH, you can add it from Visual Studio Code:

Open Visual Studio Code.
Go to View > Command Palette.
Type Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH and select it.